# Finding-optimal-Kernel-and-Hyper-parameters-for-regression-problem
Non-parametric approach of Machine learning seems to be very promising. Its performance in terms of accuracy on small data-sets shows it can easily replace parametric or deep learning models in these scenarios. Nonparametric approaches, unlike their parametric counterparts, don’t need parameters. Instead, they depend on the training data. In fact, training data can informally be called as their parameters. Thus, any increase or decrease in data set can bring big changes in model’s performance. In order to check the interaction between the results of function applied on these data-sets, they use co variance or kernel function. The ”training-phase” is used to find the optimal values of hyper-parameters used in these kernels. However, the big question is how to find these kernels? How to decide which kernel will suit for any real world data-set? There can be many solutions to a given problem.In same way,many kernels or combination of kernels can be used for a given problem. So what are the deciding factors to choose one from the lot? Further, comparative study is one of the best form of study.Can we compare performance of a non-parametric model with everyone’s favorite, deep learning model? How can we explain the results of the proposed model? How can we back our model and explain what all it is considering before making any prediction or classification? Further, can we do something that will reduce the time taken to optimize our model? This project tries to answer all these questions. Apart from finding a really good kernel for a real world data-set, we will try to answer all the above raised questions.Also,” developing kernel is like an art. You need time,practise and patience to develop one which best fits the given data-set”. Our kernel may not be the best one. There may be other kernels that can fit even better on the used data-set and give far better performance,however, this is the start of a research where the aim is to not only understand how a kernel can be built, but also many basic concepts ,which are questioned above.
